>> Kyle Simpson: Our final topic in
this discussion unit on scope and
closure is to look at the module pattern.
Specifically, we wanna take this out of
the realm of esoteric academic ideas to
something practical that we can repeat and
use in our everyday coding.
The module pattern is probably
the most important of all the code
organization patterns in programming,
especially in JavaScript.
[COUGH] So, I wanna start first by
talking about what's not a module.
That way, we fully understand and
appreciate what is a module.
Here, I've created a foo that points
at an object that has some stuff on it.
In this case, an o variable and
the bar method.
And it is true that I have
collected some variables and
some methods into a single unit, but
that doesn't really satisfy the spirit
of what encapsulation is about and
encapsulation is what is necessary
to fully realize the module pattern.
Encapsulation means, specifically
hiding of information that is not
necessary to be seen to the outside world.
We talked earlier in the course about
the principle of least privilege or
the principle of least exposure.
We talked about that with block scoping
like we hide a variable from an outer
scope, if it's not needed.
The same principle
applies at the API level.
If a method or a variable isn't needed,
you don't wanna expose it to
the outside world that is the rest
of the code if you don't need to.
If you expose it, it means that
somebody may take advantage of and
use that method in a way that is
different than you were expecting.
Now, the way this typically plays out
is you have some undocumented method.
A private method that people weren't
supposed to use and maybe you make it like
with an underscore in the variable name
and you tell people, don't use it.
And yet, somebody starts using it.
Somebody starts relying upon that method.
And later, you wanna go back and refactor
and change that method or remove it and
you can't.
Because now,
you're gonna break people's code.
You're like this was undocumented.
You're not supposed to use it and
the real response is you
were supposed to use encapsulation
to prevent people from using it.
That's what that design pattern is for.
So in this case, we don't have any way
to prevent somebody from using o or bar.
At best, we might have the obscurity
of putting an underscore in the name.
But real encapsulation would take
advantage of functions scope to hide
the things that aren't necessary.
So bar needs to be exposed, great.
But what if we don't need
to expose the o variable,
because that's an internal detail that's
not necessary to the outside world.
So, let's look at using function scope and
in particular closure to
realize the module pattern.
This is the classic module pattern,
codified most notably by Doug Crockford
back in the early 2000s.
You'll notice that I have
an outer enclosing function.
In this case, it's actually an IIFE,
although it doesn't have to be.
An outer enclosing function
that starts on line 1 and
then executes itself down on line 11.
Inside the function,
when I declare a variable or
if I were to make a function declaration.
By default, all of those
are lexically hidden scope-wise from
the rest of the outside world.
The only stuff that's gonna be available
for you to see from the outside
world is whatever I put on this object
right here and that object I return,
which gets pointed to by the foo variable
represents the publicAPI for this module.
It is the stuff that we choose to expose
and anything we don't expose stays hidden.
So you can't say something like foo.0,
because 0 is lexically hidden
inside the scope of that function.
You can, however, say, foo.bar.
Because you choose to make
that public on the API.
That's what we call the module pattern.
Technically, we're not really abusing, but
sort of reusing some existing mechanism.
In this case, function and
closer to implement this pattern.
It's not exactly like having
a module keyword that we can use.
We'll talk about syntactic support for the
module pattern in just a little bit, but
it's worked well enough
that this has been,
again, as I said,
the predominant pattern for
organizing our code across pretty much
all of JavaScript for a really long time.
The other competing pattern
of course is classes and
we will talk a little
bit later about classes.
Before I move on from talking
about this specific slide,
I just wanna emphasize that while
this is a syntactic pattern.
There's a layer of thinking that
you need to begin to adopt and
the exercise we're about to start working
on will encourage you to think more deeply
about this particular or will encourage
you to challenge your way of thinking
about this stuff differently,
because the real questions you wanna ask
yourself are not just does my
application do the right thing.
Think back to the exercise code we've been
working on running through this workshop.
All the functions are just hanging out
there out in the open global space.
A, that's not great organization that all
that stuff is hanging out in global space.
But B, it's not good organization.
Cuz it's not clear where
the appropriate separation or
the appropriate boundaries
between functionality are.
I mean, you can think about it as simply
as there's one set of responsibility which
is managing what happens in
the DOM that you iced off and
there's another set of responsibility for
managing the data model.
That in of itself is two
separate pieces of functionality.
The way the code is currently constructed,
that stuff is all
conflated stuck together.
And it's difficult to tease out which
parts are UI, which parts are data model.
So the module pattern is not
just about it's pretty or
it like organizes things into a publicAPI.
It's really about forcing you to think
about how to design your software,
so that the proper separation of
responsibilities is in place and
you're gonna be wrestling
with that multiple times.
There is three parts to
the upcoming exercise.
You're gonna get to wrestle with
that question multiple times in this
next exercise.
So, this is the classic module pattern.
Now [COUGH] there is one thing to
observe about this which may not be
obvious at first and
that is the object that we return,
the one we're returning on line five.
It's sort of an anonymous object,
because we return it and
foo can reference that object.
But we don't retain any internal
reference to our own publicAPI.
Inside of our module, we don't have
any access to our own publicAPI.
And I don't know if that sounds strange
to anybody else, but that feels really
awkward to me that a module doesn't
have access to its own publicAPI.
Why might you need that?
Well, a couple of use cases.
One, I might wanna call one of my own
publicAPI methods from internally.
Two, I might wanna add of remove
properties or update property values or
add or
remove methods from my own publicAPI.
If I don't retain an internal access
to it, I can't change my own API.
I can't do anything with my own API and
then there's
the stylistic question which is if I
were to try to reference something,
it would not be obvious that I was
dealing with my own publicAPI.
>> Kyle Simpson: So this next slide shows
a very slight variation of this pattern,
a modified variation of the classic
module pattern where I actually
create an object that
serves as the publicAPI.
But I save it to an internal
variable called publicAPI and
then return that reference.
Same principle applies,
this is still a scope closure based
module pattern with encapsulation.
But now, I have an access to publicAPI.
So when foo points at that object,
we now have foo on the outside
pointing at the object.
And on the inside,
publicAPI pointing at the same object.
And now,
I can use that reference internally.
I can call my own methods.
Aadd and remove methods.
Update property values as I see fit.
Even if I don't need to do that,
I've just gotten into the habit of
always declaring my module pattern by
explicitly calling out my publicAPI.
Because stylistically, it makes it clearer
that's exactly what this object is doing.
It is serving the purpose
of being a publicAPI.
Put this in your notes cuz it's not in the
slide but it's important for you to know.
There are two characteristics implicit
in this definition of modules and
both of these characteristics
need to be present for
you to legitimately be
using the module pattern.
The first characteristic is
that there must an outer and
closing function that runs at least once.
And I would even more generalize it to say
there must be an outer enclosing scope.
That's almost always
gonna be a function but
technically it doesn't
have to be a function.
But there has to be an enclosing scope.
In a couple of slides ago,
we didn't have enclosing scope so
that's why it failed
the module definition.
Here, we have an enclosing scope.
This function happens to run exactly once.
We have a special term for
things that only get created once and
it's called singleton.
So this is kind of like
a singleton module.
There's only one instance of it.
Had I made that a regular function that
could be called multiple times, every time
that function was called, it would
produce a new instance of the module.
So it's kind of like
a module factory function.
So if it wasn't an IIFE,
if I took off the parenthesis and
just had a function that I could call
multiple times, that's a module factory.
But that first characteristic, we need to
have one outer enclosing in this case,
function that runs at least once.
Second characteristic, there needs
to be at least one internal function
that returns back in the publicAPI that
has closure over the internal state.
If you're not taking advantage of
the internal state of this closure,
then you're really missing the whole
point of the module pattern.
Why go to all this trouble to
create the wrapper syntax.
The boiler plate overhead, if your not
gonna take advantage of being able to
maintain that state overtime hidden
inside of the encapsulated scope.
So really, it's those two characteristics
have to play together for
there legitimately be a module pattern.
Outer and
closing function that runs at least once,
inner function with closure of
that scope that gets return.
Beyond that there are lots of
variations that you can use.
Some of you may have heard of AMD
style loaders like RequireJS was
a very popular one for many years.
They typically look something like
what I'm showing here whether some
function like define or
something like that.
And you give it a function that's suppose
to return back your publicAPI for
your module and you might optionally
tell it, this is what I wanna call it.
This is the name of my module, and
I just wanted to point out that this
is not some magical secret sauce.
This is exactly what I just
showed on the previous slide.
The only part that is hidden here is,
you don't see that function being executed
and the return value being
assigned to a variable called foo.
That's the only part that this loader
this define loader is actually doing for
you but everything else behaves
by exactly the same rules.
We have internal hidden variables or
functions that aren't
by default accessible.
We make them accessible by
adding them to the publicAPI, so
we end up with a foo module
that has this bar method on it.
So I referred a moment ago to,
this is kind of repurposing
function syntax to create this
module idiom out of thin air.
But it's not really
exactly dedicated syntax.
Wouldn't it be nice if
there was dedicated syntax?
As of ES6, we got dedicated syntax for it.
As via 6 we have import and
export that allow us to express
that a module by default
has everything hidden.
And export let us tell it what we
wanna add to the public exports list,
import says, we get to list what
we wanna import from a module.
So if I had a file called food.js here,
and I had a hidden
internal variable called var0, you'll
notice that it's just by default hidden.
I didn't need to wrap anything around it
because the entire contents of the file
are treated as the module.
That is something very unique and
different compared to the way we've been
thinking about modules in JavaScript.
The file is the module, the file contents.
The way it gets treated
as the module contents
is based upon how that file gets loaded.
If it gets loaded by an import statement
like we see in the second code snippet,
then it's gonna get
interpreted as a module and
everything will be hidden
within a module scope.
The only stuff that'll be accessible to
the outside world is the stuff that we
choose to put export in front of.
So what does that mean to be file based?
The most pragmatic or practical
observation that you'll then make is,
it is impossible for you to package
multiple modules into the same file.
The entire contents of a file will
be treated as a single module.
So, if you have 100 separate modules for
your application, you're gonna have
to put those into 100 separate files.
And you're gonna have to keep those
hundred separate files completely separate
from the perspective of how they load,
even into the browser.
>> Kyle Simpson: There's a good chance
that that might throw up some alarm bells
in your head because you've
also probably heard for 15 or
20 years of the web's history.
Don't load hundreds of separate files,
cuz the performance will be terrible.
Concatenate everything into one file.
So it might seem like this design
is antithetical to web performance.
The perspective that TC39 used
was that by the time module
support had rolled down in full
scale to all of the web browsers.
Simultaneous with that our concurrent
with that, we would had to roll out off
another technology assistive technology
if you will which is HTTP version two.
And the primary observation that's
different between version one and
version two of HTTP,
is that in version two,
everything is delivered over a single
persistent socket connection.
Not terribly dissimilar from web sockets.
There's one connection made
between client and server.
That connection stays alive for
the entire lifetime.
And all the resources that need to go out,
go out over that single connection.
As a matter of fact, they can be inter-
weaved together so the worst possible thing
you can do an HTTP version two,
is package everything up into one file.
And send all of those bytes
serially down the line.
The best thing you can do,
is have lots of separate resources and
send them concurrently.
>> Kyle Simpson: So their perception or
their forethought was,
this won't be a problem to be file
based because by the time people adopt
ES6 modules, they'll also all likely
be adopting HTTP version two.
But that means for you today is,
don't go adopting ES6 modules until you're
also ready to adopt HTTP version two.
Version two of HTTP does require
a more intelligent server.
You have things that the server has
to figure out like server push,
where it receives a single
request from the browser and
the server knows what resources
are gonna be asked for.
So, it pushes them up preemptively and
all kinds of other stuff.
You're gonna need a more sophisticated
server to figure that stuff out.
They exist, but you're gonna need that,
it's not just gonna automatically
come right out of the box.
>> Kyle Simpson: So that's the first major
observation, modules are file based.
And that will change a bit how you
might design your application.
The other thing to know,
is that modules are by default singletons.
There's only one instance
of the module in ES6.
If I called import bar, like I do there
on the line, one with the second snippet.
If I call that import bar 15 times,
I'm not gonna recreate
the foo module 15 times.
It only gets created and run once.
And then I get 15 separate reference
copies of the same module instance.
>> Kyle Simpson: So if you're in the habit
of liking to have different module
instances like you think of them as
module factories when you require them or
something, you're gonna have to implement
that layer of module factory on top of
your API.
Have to export a method like create or
factory or something,
that can generate those.
Because just importing it will
not create a new instance.
That's another thing to be aware of.
The biggest caveat that exists here is
that there's a big incompatibility between
the syntax that rolled into JavaScript.
And the most predominant environment
where we have modules today,
which is the npm ecosystem in Node.js.
To date, there's 420 something
thousand public packages,
plus who knows how many millions
of private packages that have been
written and
published to the npm repository.
And 100% of those are incompatible
with this new ES6 syntax.
Moreover, Node.js itself is incompatible
with this new syntax because Node.js
needs to support, not only the old style,
required style, but the new import style.
And while it seems like that would
just be a simple matching up of stuff.
It turns out when Node went to go
implement this, they're like crap,
this doesn't work, and we can't break
our existing ecosystem to make it work.
So then they had to go
back to the drawing board.
They went back to JavaScript,
the TC 39 committee and
they're like, sorry, this is awkward but
that's not gonna work.
And so they've been hashing this out
now for the better part of a year.
Most recently within about a month or
so they announced that they think
they have a path forward for
compat, but that it will take at least
another year to iron all of that out.
So it's not gonna be any time
soon that you can rely upon this,
even though it's in the [LAUGH] specs
standard, that you can rely upon it.
It may change,
they're talking about requiring you,
if you're gonna do node modules that are
ES6, you're gonna have to use a special
file extension or
some other kind of ridiculousness.
This stuff is still in flux.
So my recommendation is,
while it's cool to look at, and
I'm excited about this syntax eventually.
For now, I've chosen to hold off
converting to this module syntax.
For now I continue to use
the existing classic module pattern.
We call that common JS,
we call it UMD, we call it AMD,
whatever terminology we put on top of it.
That's how I ship my modules so that they
run in both Node and in the browser.
Some people have started using
this as an authoring format, but
then they transpile from this format
back to something like common JS.
Personally for me,
I think it's the reverse.
Personally for me, I'm gonna
continue to author for a long time,
in the existing format and I eventually
might start transpiling the ES6 modules.
So it will become instead of
an authoring format, a target format for
the environments that support it.
So personally, for me, I'm not likely
gonna start offering in this for
maybe at least another five years or so.
Let all of this stuff iron itself out.
That's my own take.
You can make your own decisions
as makes sense for your team.